Scaling at 4p.
- Elite Grunt: Health of a Tri-Jaw. x1.5 pure Movement Speed. Immune to Fear. Deal x1.5 damage. Attack interval decreased. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Take x1.5 more Fire damage.
- Elite Slasher: Health of a Brundle. x1.5 pure Movement Speed. Attack interval decreased. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Stun with x0.2 duration. Take x2 more Fire damage.
- Elite Guard: Health of a Menace. x1.5 pure Movement Speed. Attack interval decreased. x1.5 Infliction Temperature requirement. Armor Plate HP is massively Increased. Stun with x0.2 duration. Take x1.5 more Fire damage.
- Elite Swarmer: Health of a normal Grunt. x5 pure Movement Speed. Immune to Fear. Temperature infliction is now similar to normal Grunt, no longer dies when being Frozen or Burn. Deal x2 damage. Stun with x0.2 duration.
- Elite Exploder (No longer spawns in Master Series+): Health of a Grunt. x2 pure Movement Speed. Immune to Temperature infliction. Explosion range +60%. Immune to Fear, Stun.
- Elite Rockpox Exploder (Master Series+): Health of a Crawler. x5 pure Movement Speed. Immune to Temperature infliction. Explosion range +60%. Immune to Fear, Stun. NSX enhancement: Deal x1.5 damage. Immune to Fear, Stun. Take x1.3 more Fire damage.
- Elite Web Spitter: Health of a Grunt. x5 pure Movement Speed. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Shoot Nemesis's barrier that deals x1.5 damage. Stun with x0.5 duration.
- Elite Acid Spitter: Health of a Sentinel. x1.25 pure Movement Speed. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Stun with x0.2 duration. Take x1.5 more Fire damage.
- Elite Kursite Acid Spitter: Health of a Sentinel. x1.25 pure Movement Speed. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Shoot Glyphid Dreadnought's Fireball projectile that deals slightly higher damage than normal Acid Spitter + Poison damage. Immune to Fear. Stun with x0.334 duration. Take x1.5 more Fire damage.
- Elite Septic Spreader: Health of a Sentinel. x2 pure Movement Speed. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Shoot a Snowball projectile that deals massive Freeze Infliction (instantly Freeze at direct hit or extremely close radius). Stun with x0.5 duration. Take x1.5 more Fire damage.
- Elite Stalker: Health of a Brundle. x5 pure Movement Speed. x1.5 Temperature Infliction requirement. Burrow Damage threshold is halved of Normal Stalker. Immune to Fear. Stun with x0.5 duration and have 2s of Stun Immunity Window. This difficulty lower Stalker and Elite Stalker damage dealt by a considerable amount. Take x1.15 more Fire Damage.
- Elite Stingtail: Health of a Sentinel. x1.5 pure Movement Speed. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Successful grabbing Cooldown lowered to 4s. Immune to Fear. Stun with x0.334 duration and have 0.2s of Stun Immunity Window.
- Elite Menace: Health of a Goo Bomber/Warden (Include Weakpoint HP). Rapidly Shoot Barrager's Vomit projectile. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Stun with x0.7 duration.
- Elite Praetorian: Health of an Oppressor. x1.5 pure Movement Speed. Armor Plate HP is massively Increased. x1.5 Temperature Infliction requirement. Immune to Fear. Stun with x0.16 duration.
- Elite Kursite Praetorian (Master Series+): Health of an Oppressor. Spawn from Far Away. x5 pure Movement Speed. x1.5 Temperature Infliction requirement. Only do Blunt attacks that deal x1.3 damage and have no gas cloud attack when Death. Electric and Corrosive damage taken x0.2. Stun with x0.16 duration.
- Elite Oppressor: Health of a Barrager. x2 pure Movement Speed. Tremor Attack has an enhancement that allow to launch up with higher force and higher hitbox register.
- Elite Warden: Health of an Oppressor. Buff Radius and Target Count are doubled. x1.5 Temperature Infliction requirement. Immune to Stun and Fear. 
- Elite Bulk: Spawn from Extremely Far Away. In Escort, Spawn distance become normal.
- Elite Crassus Bulk (NSX): Health of a Barrager. Have Global Outline. Spawn from Far Away. x5 pure Movement Speed. Deal x0.5 damage (Except Meatballs when death). Electric and Corrosive damage taken x0.2. Carve with slightly smaller Radius than Normal Bulk and leave behind Gold Chunk.
- Elite Youngling: Health of a Sentinel. Spawn from Very Far Away. x1.5 Temperature Infliction requirement. Will prefer to Roll without stopping. Take x1.3 more Fire damage.
- Elite Shellback: Health of an Oppressor. Spawn from Very Far Away. x5 pure Movement Speed when walking. Will prefer to shoot Projectile attack. Shoot PGL's projectile that deals aoe damage and carve terrain (Deal roughly the same damage as normal Shellback's projectile). x1.5 Temperature Infliction requirement. Roll mode now has the same Element weaknesses as if in Walk mode.
- Elite Trawler: Has 58.3% more health than normal Trawler. AI has been modified to be more aggressive. x2 Temperature infliction requirement.
- Elite Mactera Spawn: Health of a Stalker. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Deal only x0.9 damage (Total damage is still slightly higher than normal Mactera shot). Immune to Fear. Stun with x0.14 duration.
- Elite Kursite Spawn: Health of a Stalker. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Dashing speed is increased by 50%. Shoot double Turret Whip projectiles, total damage is slightly higher than previous Elite Mactera Spawn. Immune to Fear. Stun with x0.334 duration.
- Elite Tri-jaw: Health of a Sentinel. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. Immune to Fear. Stun with x0.14 duration.
- Elite Brundle: Health of a Warden/Goo Bomber. Shoot fast wide ranged Breach Cutter projectile that can pierce and deal same damage as normal Brundle, Breach Cutter projectile has limited travel distance. x2 Burning Inflction requirement. Immune to Fear. Stun with x0.35 duration.
- Elite Grabber: Health of a Repulsion Turret. Spawn Very Far Away. Grab Time is lowered down to 7s. x2 Temperature Infliction requirement. NS/NSX enhancement: Double the Damage Threshold to Flee/Free off grabbed player. 
- Elite Goo Bomber: Health of a Barrager (Include Weakpoint HP). x1.5 Burning Inflction requirement. Bombing Attack Puddle radius is slightly increased. Death Bombing attack will last slightly longer and traverse in further range. Stun with x0.1 duration. Take x1.15 more Fire Damage.
- Elite Rockpox Bomber (Master Series+): Same Health of a Goo Bomber. Shoot Orb Spawn Ball that spawns a bunch of different colored normal Grunts (called Paratroopers) that deals 30% more damage. x1.5 Burning Inflction requirement. Stun with x0.1 duration. Does NOT Inherit weaknesses from normal Goo Bomber.
- Elite Fire Bomber: Health of Barrager (Include Weakpoint HP). x1.5 Burning Inflction requirement. Shoot triple Hiveguard's fireball attacks. Death Bombing attack will last slightly longer and traverse in further range. Stun with x0.1 duration. Fire Bomber and Elite Fire Bomber deals slightly lower damage output. Take x1.15 more Fire Damage.
- Elite Breeder: Health of normal Breeder (except 6x2EX, SI!, NS, NSX has halved Health instead due to being respawnable). Breed a Homing Drone that home to player and explode when killed or impact, deal massive damage to player. 
- Elite Leech: Health of Stingtail. Grab and Damaging Speed is greatly increased from Normal Cave Leech. x2 Temperature Inflction requirement. Piercing damage taken has been reduced. NSX enhancement, Piercing damage taken has been significantly reduced. Take x1.5 more Fire damage.
- Elite Spitballer: Health of a Brundle, but Scale/Hitbox size has been reduced greatly. Shoot Lacerator's stomp attack that deals only x0.4 of original damage. Does not wake up until take damage similar to Korlok Sprout.
- Elite Barrager: Health of a normal Barrager. Scale/Hitbox size has been slightly reduced. Shoot Gunner's Sticky Grenade that stick, deal damage on impact, then shortly explode, deal slightly higher damage than normal Barrager's Vomit Explosion.
- Elite Patrol Bot (6x2EX+): Health of a Guard/Septic. Its AI has been modified to Rapidly Shoot normal Projectiles that deal constant stream of damage. Burn and Freezing requirement has been significantly decreased. Does no Bump Attack like normal Patrol Bot in this difficulty.
- Elite Sentinel (6x2EX+): Health of a Praetorian. x2 pure Movement Speed. x1.5 Temperature Inflction requirement. Stun with x0.2 duration. NS/NSX enchancement: Deal x1.3 damage. Take x1.3 more Fire Damage.
- Elite Sniper Turret (Master Series+): Health of a Stingtail. Enable to be frozen at -50 pt. Shoot a normal moving Bosco's Normal Rocket that deals AOE damage to player (The damage is slightly lowered than OG Sniper Turret Projectile but higher than nerfed Global Sniper Turret projectile). Does not die when being on Fire.
- Elite Repulsion Turret (Master Series+): Health of a Goo Bomber/Warden. Enable to be frozen at -100 pt. Shoot OMEN Tower's Line-Cutting projectile that deals contact damage to player. Shooting Interval is 50% higher than OG Repulsion turret. Does not die when being on Fire but Burning Temperature is lowered to 50. Unable to spawn in Escort. 
- Elite Burst Turret (MSX): Health of OG Burst Turret (HP 750 x 1.75). Does not die when being on Fire but Ignition temperature requirement is lowered to 50 pt. Enable to be frozen at -100 pt. Shoot Triple Scorching Tide projectile that deals wide and great Burn damage to the player. Lock on, Shoot interval and Burst interval have been significantly increased. Unable to spawn in Escort.
- Elite Crawler (Master Series+): Health of a Brundle. x2 pure Movement Speed. Deal x1.3 damage. Stun with x0.2 duration. Take x1.3 more Fire Damage.